= Overview =
The Linux Tools Trace Viewer is a stand-alone application based on Eclipse's
Rich Client Platform (RCP). The purpose of this is to provide a lightweight
application to view and analyze traces. It includes all TMF (Tracing and
Monitoring Framework) features, as well as all features from the LTTng (Linux
Tracing Toolkit next generation) Eclipse integration, which are provided by the
Linux Tools Project.

= Getting Started =
To start the Linux Tools Trace Viewer, go to the directory where the Trace
Viewer is installed and then run the application named '''traceViewer'''.
During startup, the Trace Viewer will create, if necessary, an Eclipse workspace
in the user's home directory with the name ''.traceviewer''. It also creates, if
needed, a default tracing project called ''Tracing''.

Now the application can be used as described in the User Guide for Linux Tools
LTTng integration (see section [[#References | References]]).

= Opening a Trace =
To open a trace, click on the '''File''' menu, '''Open''' and select a '''Open file...''' (logs and such) or '''Open directory...''' (Ctf trace). Select the file or directory, and the RCP will open it. It will attempt to autodetect the trace type. If many trace types can read this trace, a window will prompt the user to select a trace type. Once a trace type is selected, the trace loads.

If the user prefers, they can launch the RCP with the argument '''--open <trace-path>'''. The trace will then automatically open. Conflicting trace types will be resolved the same way as opening from a menu, if there are conflicting types, the user will be prompted to select a trace type.

In both of the above cases, the trace will be linked to the default project.

= References =

* [http://www.eclipse.org/linuxtools/projectPages/lttng/ Linux Tools - LTTng integration]
* [http://www.lttng.org/ LTTng project]
* [http://wiki.eclipse.org/Linux_Tools_Project/TMF/User_Guide TMF User Guide]

